Hi friends, welcome to realtime practice for your shell scripting.
Friends.
In this video, we are going to design one simple digital clock with your shell scripting.
So you know how the digital clock will be.
Something like email any different structures for your digital clock output.
But suppose I am going to take this way,
hours, minutes, and seconds.
And if you want to display in colors,
you can display it, right, that is the origin.
And again, if you want to display,
we're Howard in one color,
minutes in one colored and seconds in one color,
and Colin's in different colors. You can do it.
Right?
That's fine. First thing, distill clock Mains.
What would be the output?
So this is the format. To get your output.
In this format you have to get your output.
So it's not only here,
whenever if you get some tasks could to write
your shell script first unit to understand what is the output,
how will be the output?
Then you ought to think for inputs.
Right?
Now, in our case, simple digital clock.
This is the output I want to get.
Right?
Then for this outward,
what you need as an input, right?
So there's actually, you need input is nothing but your time only, right?
Actually you have a dead command.
If you observe date command you are having.
So for your date,
you have different types of formats.
Suppose I am taking directly,
you are required format.
So you can search about your date command complete formats, you can get it.
Yes, this is the format.
If I run this, see what you are getting.
Minutes, colon, sorry, hours,
colon, minutes, colon seconds.
So this is first time I won't display immediately after 1 second, right?
I want display after 1 second.
I want to display after 1 second.
I want to display after 1 second I wanted.
That means same command.
I need to run after every 1 second.
Right?
See that?
Suppose sleep 11 second.
Then again I introns same command, right?
See now two outputs, 3132.
So if we wanted to get one more clock,
I mean digital output,
then again, I need to run Same thing, right?
So if you observe here what you are doing. 42.
Sorry, maybe I didn't date date two times immediately.
Yeah.
Let me delete this and see the output once again.
Observe the output First.
55, 56, 57.
Yes, you are getting diesel clock output you are getting right to get this output,
what you are doing first-year running some date command,
then you are waiting for 1 second.
Again, you are running dead command and you're waiting for 1 second.
And again you're running debt command again,
you are going to wait 1 second and again you run your debt command.
That means if you observe.
These two commands you are running again and again and again.
But anyway, if it is a digital clock,
you have to run this for infinite number of times.
Right?
Now I'm going to write a simple shell script to get this output VI digital clock.
Not as such.
So very first line is a shebang link.
Right?
Now first I'm going to run your date command in this format.
Then I'm waiting for 1 second.
Then again, I want to run this.
See. So actually I want to repeat this many number of times up to infinity.
But if I want to do a to infinity,
I need to write keep on infinite times,
but I don't want to write up to infinite times, right?
So what I will do is,
so first I will run this and we'll see the output once.
C 331314151617 ID.
So you are getting your output, digital clock output.
But if you observe digital clock output after getting this right,
you will get up for 1 second this output,
but this won't appear right?
This will disappear.
And then you have to display this thing only.
And once if we get 15,
then you delete distinct or clear your screen.
So you have a command called clear in your shell script, right?
So what you will do is just after getting clear,
clear, clear, clear.
That's it. So by this,
just observe that what he's going to do.
So for you to use some clarity,
just I am writing these many number of times,
but I don't want to write in this way.
Right? Will go and write exact code.
After some time.
Let me
write at least four sometimes.
Not say, no, let me run this script and observe the output.
46474849505152
Right now it is like a digital clock.
But I want to run this for infinite number of times.
But your telescope is not running for infinite number of times as of now.
Now if I want to run some logic for infinite number of times,
first of all, if you observe your shell script,
you are repeating these three lines again and again and again.
Immediately that to immediately or repeating whenever,
if there is a chance to repeat some logic again and again immediately,
then what is the concept of how to use loops?
Right?
Now let me delete these lines.
Now what I will do is first I'll
clear my screen and then I'm writing infinity loop called while.
You can also use this one noble than do.
Done. That's it.
No, let me run the shell script and observe the outputs.
45678910. Right?
Now, even shell script is able to produce output as Z.
What digital clock?
Right there is here I usually logic.
Simply do display your output.
I mean date command output, offer that.
I am waiting for 1 second off for the time cleaning my screen.
And these three steps,
actually I'm repeating for infinite number of times.
So if I want to write infinite number of times,
then I cannot end by writing them.
Because I, I need to write keep on those three lines for an even number of times.
But I don't want to write, but I want to execute
those three lines as infinite number of times.
Then whenever if you want to repeat first three, I mean,
not only three, any logic within the number of times you have to use loops.
And that too in even number of times,
just take in-video loop.
You are having different types of loops, right? For loop.
And while you can take any one of that here,
I selected YOU, right?
And one more thing in case if you want to display your output in terms of colors,
right, you can do this thing.
So you know, echo command with colors, echo,
hyphen e. Let me take flood erodible three,
some mind two to m. So now I am executing my command inside of echo command.
Then you have to use this syntax.
Right?
Just Upworthy or putting out.
See MIT colors I am displaying.
So based on your requirement.
So if you want to display even hours in one color and minutes in one colour,
and it was seconds in one column.
Yes, you can do it. So if you want, you can just try.
Right?
So guys, this is the simple digital calculator designing with your shell script, right?
So while going forward,
we will see lot of real-time practice.
And one more thing is we'll start with low-level and we'll go with advanced level.
So that's what I want to do so that you will be good with your shell scripting.
Okay?
Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.